
# SwEnt Milestone 1 Feedback

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.

We looked at several aspects, grouped into three categories: app design, app quality & delivery, and Scrum.

- [App Design](#app-design)

  - [Architecture](#architecture)

  - [Implementation](#implementation)

  - [Figma](#figma)

  - [UI](#ui)

- [Quality & Delivery](#quality-&-delivery)

  - [Automated Testing](#automated-testing)

  - [Automated Delivery](#automated-delivery)

  - [End-to-End Application Behavior](#end-to-end-application-behavior)

- [Scrum](#scrum)

  - [Documents](#documents)

  - [Backlogs & Planning](#backlogs-&-planning)

# App Design

## Architecture

We looked at the high-level design of your app. We checked whether the UI, data layer, and corresponding dependencies are present. We evaluated whether your architecture diagram is of good quality and reflects the architecture of the app.

The architecture diagram is very clear and complete. We simply have a small suggestion: maybe you would find it helpful using https://excalidraw.com to create your architecture diagram. This way it would be easier to maintain during the semester.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Implementation

We looked at several implementation aspects, such as whether authentication is done safely, whether all sensitive data is properly safeguarded using crypto and secure APIs, and whether the permissions requested by your app are truly needed.

For next Milestone, you should have pop-up windows asking the user whether he/she agrees to give access to the app to his/her photo gallery.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Figma

We reviewed how you used Figma in these first Sprints of your project. We took into account whether you had done wireframes and mockups, whether these contained the main application flows and the core features, and whether the screens were linked. Overall, we wanted to see whether it's clear how the pieces work together.

The Figma is really complete, you even have the dark mode screens. Well done !

For this part, you received 15 points out of a maximum of 15.

## UI

We checked whether the elements of your app's UI are consistent (fonts, colors, etc.) and whether the layout is responsive (i.e., adapts to different screen sizes and orientations).

Well done, all your screens look good both on dark and light mode ! Also even when running your app on different sizes of phones it stays completely usable !

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

# Quality & Delivery

## Automated Testing

We looked at whether you configured your CI to integrate with Sonar, whether your CI passes, and of course whether your CI automatically runs the test suite. Then we checked the statement coverage achieved by your test suite. We also looked at whether you have at least one meaningful UI test per screen, one meaningful unit test per repository, one meaningful unit test per view-model, and one meaningful end-to-end test.

The set up of the CI is done, and Sonar Cloud works as intended.
Well done for the code coverage ! Keep up the good work.
For next Milestone, you should still ensure that you have:
- At least 1 meaningful UI test per screen 
- At least 1 meaningful unit test per view-model
- At least 1 meaningful unit test per repository

Well done on implementing an end-to-end test ! Also it is a good practice to add some comments explaining what are the steps taken by the end-to-end tests so well done !

For this part, you received 33 points out of a maximum of 33.

## Automated Delivery

We checked whether you have set up your CI to automatically build the APK, and it does so successfully. We also wanted to see if the APK could be installed and run on a real device.

The APK worked, well done !

For this part, you received 7 points out of a maximum of 7.

## End-to-End Application Behavior

We then interacted with your app manually, this was fun. We flagged any problems we encountered, such as crashes or bugs, and we classified the bugs into minor vs. major bugs.

Minor bugs:
- The friend search bar is case sensitive (so writing andreea instead of Andreea gives an empty result) you should try to modify this behaviour.

For this part, you have been penalized 0 points.

# Scrum

## Documents

The main things we looked for was whether you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up in a timely and thorough manner.

Well done on having two stand-up sheets completed every week !
All the sheets you completed collectively are perfectly detailed and understandable so well done !

For this part, you received 10 points out of a maximum of 10.

## Backlogs & Planning

We analyzed your product backlog, Sprint 3 backlog, and the Scrum board. For the PB, we checked whether it was up-to-date and whether you had populated it with user stories for the first epic and for a second epic. For the Sprint 3 backlog, we looked at whether it was up-to-date and whether the task descriptions were clear. We looked at whether tasks were assigned, whether they had a time estimate, and whether they had a priority. Finally, we evaluated whether your
Scrum board was up-to-date and ready for Sprint 3.

For the next Milestone, please note that in the Product Backlog column you should only have the user stories for your application.

Well done on writing explanations of each of the tasks on the Scrum Board !

You did not assign all the tasks in the Product Backlog for the sprint 3 to one of you, in the future please try to always assign all the tasks to one of the members.

All the tasks in the Product Backlog should have a time estimate so please be careful about it for the next sprints.

Well done on adding priority tags to all the tasks in the Product Backlog !

For this part, you received 18 points out of a maximum of 20.

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M1 is 5.90. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/private/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
