# Milestone M2: Team Feedback

This milestone M2 provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on two major themes:
First, whether you have adopted good software engineering practices and are making progress toward delivering value to your users.
Is your design and implementation of high quality, easy to maintain, and well tested?
Second, we look at how well you are functioning as a team, how you organize yourselves, and how well you have refined your collaborative development.
An important component is also how much you have progressed, as a team, since the previous milestone.
You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document.
As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

We looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

 - Design
   - [Features](#design-features)
   - [Design Documentation](#design-documentation)
 - [Implementation and Delivery](#implementation-and-delivery)
 - Scrum
   - [Backlogs Maintenance](#scrum-backlogs-maintenance)
   - [Documentation and Ceremonies](#scrum-documentation-and-ceremonies)
   - [Continuous Delivery of Value](#scrum-continuous-delivery-of-value)

## Design: Features

We interacted with your app from a user perspective, assessing each implemented feature and flagging any issues encountered. Our evaluation focused mainly on essential features implemented during Sprints 3, 4, and 5; any additional features planned for future Sprints were not considered in this assessment unless they induced buggy behavior in the current APK.
We examined the completeness of each feature in the current version of the app, and how well it aligns with user needs and the overall project goals.


All the features in your app add substantial value and meet the M2 requirements. You have some complex implementations and although the app is not fully complete the current features show how it could serve users effectively. To further improve you could try to implement innovative and original features that are impactfull both in their design and in their functionality.

All the features that were planned for the second milestone have been implemented and are complete, bug-free, while allowing a good user experience. Well done, keep up the good work !

As a team, you consistently implemented features that truly benefit your application. To refine your work, you could prioritize features even more on the value they add to the application.


For this part, you received 7.2 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Design: Documentation

We reviewed your Figma (including wireframes and mockups) and the evolution of your overall design architecture in the three Sprints.
We assessed how you leveraged Figma to reason about the UX, ensure a good UX, and facilitate fast UI development.
We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure.


The Figma is up to date with the application. To improve, try having some future features already in the Figma. Having a Figma always ahead of the app will allow your team to always know what you should be implementing next, and how it should look. Other than that, the Figma looks good and is really reprentative of the application. Well done !

The Architecture diagram is up to date with the app and very complete. It provides a clear overview of the app structure and dependencies. The architecture of the app is well thought, well done !



For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.0.

## Implementation and Delivery

We evaluated several aspects of your app's implementation, including code quality, testing, CI practices, and the functionality and quality of the APK.
We assessed whether your code is well modularized, readable, and maintainable.
We looked at the efficiency and effectiveness of your unit and end-to-end tests, and at the line coverage they achieve.


In your codebase, a non negligeable amount of your composables and functions lack documentations on their purpose and arguments. As for M3 you will prepare your app for a public release, your code should be pristine. If you want to take it to the next level, think about cognitive complexity (not having too much nested conditions for example), and how you could refactor your code accordingly, but this is just a suggestion.

The code coverage is almost of 85% and most of the screens and the features have above 80% of line coverage. You have implemented a second meaningful end-to-end test that is really complete, well done ! To improve even further for next milestone you could try to achieve 80% coverage on all screens and notable features. You should also include as much edge case tests as possible.

The APK is highly reliable and user experience is seamless. It has no performance issues and there are no notable issues, no bugs or crashes were detected. You thought about adding checks for all fields related to time, well done ! 


For this part, you received 14.8 points out of a maximum of 16.0.

## Scrum: Backlogs Maintenance

We looked at whether your Scrum board is up-to-date and well organized.
We evaluated your capability to organize Sprint 6 and whether you provided a clear overview of this planning on the Scrum board.
We assessed the quality of your user stories and epics: are they clearly defined, are they aligned with a user-centric view of the app, and do they suitably guide you in delivering the highest value possible.


The sprint backlog for the sprint 6 is well-organized. Each task has an assignee, a priority, and a description. Most of the tasks have a time estimate. You could further improve by adding time estimate to all the task and always putting the description in the 'description' section and not in the 'comment' section for more clarity.

The product backlog contains several user stories, however they are missing priorities which would be great to easily know what should be the next feature implemented in the application to add as much value as possible. The user stories completed have been moved to 'Done in Sprint x' columns, well done this improves the readability of the Scrum board and makes it easier to know where your app currently stand. To reach even higher standards for next milestone, we would advise you to focus strongly on the product by prioritizing the application impact instead of specific code details. The main goal is to add as much value to the application as possible, the tasks in the scrum board should simply be the implementation details related to the features you choose to integrate.


For this part, you received 3 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Documentation and Ceremonies

We assessed how you used the Scrum process to organize yourselves efficiently.
We looked at how well you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up during each Sprint.
We also evaluated your autonomy in using Scrum.


The stand-up meeting sheets are completed on time, however they would benefit being more thoroughly filled. The 'What did I work on?' and 'What am I going to work on?' questions have always the same answer so they bring no value. You can give a bit more details on what you did for the task and what remains to be done. The team retrospective sheets are completed on time and include relevant details to correctly assess what happened during the sprint. When a problem is mentioned one week, we can see improvements on it the following sprints, well done !

The scrum meetings contribute to sprint planning and improvement each week. The feedback provided by the coaches is integrated by the team.

Concerning the team autonomy during meetings, we can clearly see improvements through the sprints and the coaches are no longuer essential for the team to operate. The Scrum process is clearly managed independently by the students and the team is self-sufficient. Tasks for the following sprint are prepared before the meeting and only small adjustments are made during the sprint planning part of the Scrum meeting. Overall the team clearly understood what is expected from those meetings and how they should conduct them. Keep up the good work !


For this part, you received 3.5 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Continuous Delivery of Value

We evaluated the Increment you delivered at the end of each Sprint, assessing your team’s ability to continuously add value to the app.
This included an assessment of whether the way you organized the Sprints was conducive to an optimal balance between effort invested and delivery of value.


Even though there were midterms during the second milestone, the team implemented some new features and continuously added value to the application. Each sprint brings substantial improvements and the application is on a good way. Keep up the good work !


For this part, you received 1.8 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M2 is 5.35. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see the [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
