# Milestone M3: Team Feedback

This milestone M3 is the culmination of your SwEnt journey, and it gives us the final opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you performed in the project. By now, you should be capable of demonstrating a solid command of the Scrum methodology and collaborative teamwork, and be able to deliver a high-quality, application that is ready for real users.
This feedback report is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback that you received from your coaches during the weekly meetings, over email, on Discord, etc.

You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M3 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M3.md) document.
As mentioned before, the standards for M2 were elevated relative to M1, and this progression continued into M3: we now hold you to the highest professional standard in SwEnt.

For this milestone, we looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

- Application
  - [Completeness](#app-completeness)
  - [Functionality](#app-functionality)
  - [User Experience](#app-user-experience)
- [Design and Implementation](#design-and-implementation)
- [Testing and CI Pipeline](#testing-and-ci-pipeline)
- Process
  - [Documentation](#process-documentation)
  - [Autonomy](#process-autonomy)

## App: Completeness

We first evaluated the depth and complexity of the main __epics__ in your app, along with their contribution to the app, the tangible value they provide to the user, and their alignment with the app’s goals.
We evaluated the extent to which your app meets the __course requirements__ articulated at the start of the semester, and whether they are implemented effectively, they integrate seamlessly, and are indeed essential to the app.
We then looked at the __robustness and completeness__ of the different features you implemented: are all the features finished and polished, are they secure and bug-free, and are they thoughtfully designed.


- Your application contains multiple epics that are fully implemented. Their implementation aligned with and serves well the application's goals, well done !

- Concerning the application requirements, the four (offline mode, multi users and authentication, cloud service, and phone sensor) are well-implemented and they all enhance the application's functionalities significantly, good work !

- All the features you added to the project are fully implemented, finished and polished. All implementations are bug-free, and thoughtfully designed.


For this part, you received 7.2 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## App: Functionality

In this context, we assessed your app's ability to __handle unexpected inputs__ provided by clueless or malicious users (including spamming buttons, entering wrong inputs, stopping a process mid-way, etc.); we wanted to see that your app handles all edge cases gracefully, has comprehensive error handling, and includes robust mechanisms for maintaining stability under stress.

We then evaluated the performance and reliability of the final product, i.e., __the APK__: we wanted to see that your APK is stable and delivers excellent performance, the UI responds quickly and has seamless navigation.

Next we looked into your implementation of __user authentication and multi-user support__: does the app correctly manage users, can users personalize their accounts, does the app support session persistence, are multi-user interactions well supported, can a user recover a lost password, can accounts be used on another device, and is account information preserved when switching devices.


- We could find one small bug with the offline mode: regaining internet connection didn't make the 'no internet connection' red bar disappear. Appart from that, we tested all the features and everything worked flawlessly.

- Pictures are fetched really fast, the APK is highly reliable. The APK is fully stable and performs well. UI is responsive and the application reacts really fast, offering a smooth user experience. It offers exceptional performance by having minimum load times and a seamless naviagtion. It almost feels like a professional application that we could download on the Play Store, well done !

- The account management is seamless: users can create and manage accounts. The application supports multi-user interactions. Good work !


For this part, you received 7.4 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## App: User Experience

For this part, we wanted to see how __intuitive and user-friendly__ the app is for real users. Beyond having good usability, did you pay attention to streamlining the interactions, is it easy to figure out, can new users start making good use of the app quickly, are the interaction flows well thought out and refined.


- We can leave a trip even if we are the only participant. What happen in this case? Does it mean the trip gets deleted from your database as well or just the user gets removed from the trip?

- On smaller phones, the save button for updating the user profile is not visible and it is not totally intuitive that we should scroll to it.

- Overall, the application is intuitive and provides a smooth and enjoyable user experience. New users should be able to use the application effectively really quickly, well done !


For this part, you received 1.8 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Design and Implementation

We evaluated whether __your code is of high quality and employs best practices__, is it modular and robust, etc.
We expect the codebase to be polished, well documented, follow consistent conventions, be modular, and allow for easy modifications.
You should be able to employ advanced techniques by now, such as asynchronous functions (flows, coroutines), good resource management, and automated dependency injection (e.g., with Hilt).

We assessed your overall __app architecture and design__, looking in particular at aspects surrounding robustness and scalability.
We looked at both the codebase and the documentation of the app (Wiki and architecture diagram).
We expect your design to demonstrate thoughtful consideration for performance, maintainability, and future growth.


- The application codebase is well-documented, polished, follows conventions. It is modular and allow easy modifications. You have incorporated our feedback and improved since the last milestone, well done !

- The architecture of your application is robust, scalable, and adheres to best practices. It demonstrates thoughtful consideration for performance, maintainability, and future growth. Good work !



For this part, you received 7.2 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Testing and CI Pipeline

The first aspect we looked at here was your __test suite__, in terms of both quality and the final line coverage.
We expect testing the be rigorous and to cover all components and edge cases, and they should validate every significant user journey.
Line coverage should be getting close to 90%.
Your end-to-end tests should be detailed and include error-handling scenarios.
The tests should be well-documented and easy to maintain.
Finally, your test suite should demonstrate  advanced techniques, mock data for performance testing, and automated regression tests.

We then considered the quality of your __repository setup and the CI pipeline__, and how professional it is and how easy it is for new developers to bring contributions to the project.
We expect your repository to have a logical structure, use consistent naming, and take full advantage of CI (code quality checks, linting, formatting, etc.)
Ideally, you should also have automated performance testing, deployment pipelines, and the CI should provide detailed feedback for developers.


- There are four end-to-end tests present in the application, and all are varied, detailed and relevant, well done ! The global line coverage is 84.9%, good work !

- Concerning the repository, it is highly professional, with a logical structure, consistent naming, and extensive CI features. The CI pipeline includes additional features like code quality checks (e.g., linting, formatting), good work !



For this part, you received 7.2 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Process: Documentation

We looked at your `README` and GitHub Wiki to evaluate the quality and completeness of __your app’s documentation__. We expect the README and Wiki to be thorough and achieve professional-level clarity and completeness.
They should provide detailed descriptions of the app's architecture, implementation of the features, and the development setup.
We also assessed __your use of Figma and the architecture diagram__ for effective UI design, organization, and app structure planning.
By this stage, we expect your Figma to be complete, up-to-date, and to include UI elements for future features, showing foresight and organization.
The architecture diagram should be comprehensive, providing a clear and detailed overview of the app structure and dependencies.
The architecture should be robust, scalable, and optimized for performance, security, and future development.


- The app ReadMe is really complete and clear, well done ! The Wiki is really clean as well. They are both polished, professional and thorough and include detailed descriptions of the application architecture, feature implementation and development setup.

- The Figma is representative of the application, and up to date with it. You could have changed you logo on the sign in page in the Figma to better match your application, but else than that everything seems good. There does not seem to be UI elements for future features which could have been a good think to add.

- The architecture diagram is really clear and complete. it is well thought out, with no apparent performance, security or scalability issues.


For this part, you received 3.6 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Process: Autonomy

A primary goal of SwEnt is to teach you how to __function autonomously as a team__.
For this part of the evaluation, we assessed you team’s independence, spanning Sprint 6 to Sprint 10, based on the meetings with coaches, Sprint planning, and how you managed risk.
By this stage, coaches should no longer be necessary for the team to operate, i.e., you can organize yourselves, you don't need to be reminded about tasks, and you can conduct the Scrum ceremonies on your own.


- We (the coaches) are no longer essential for the team to operate. We do no longer need to remind the team about tasks, as the team understands its responsibilities. The team is able to lead meetings, sprint planning, and risk management, well done!


For this part, you received 1.8 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M3 is 5.53.

The entire SwEnt staff wishes you the very best in your career, and we look forward to seeing you do great things with what you learned this semester.